I'm not allowed to cross this road,
because this is the town
of Stanstead, Canada.
On the other side of the
street is Derby Line, USA
and the border between the
two countries runs right down this:
Rue Canusa.
For local residents,
that can be inconvenient.
- I've lived here all
my life, so 63 years.
Today you cannot cross over the line
and visit your neighbours, like years ago.
If you want to cross,
you have to report at customs.
You know I used to cross every day,
but now
I probably cross once every...
about once a week
because I come down to
the post office over here.
To go through the border, basically,
they ask you for your passport,
they go inside, I guess they look at
whether you have a record or not.
They'll look at your
registration of your car
and a couple of minutes
and you've gone through.
I'm a dual citizen so I'm
American and Canadian.
So it's easier.
- This is a place where
the idea of a border
as a solid, easy to understand line
gets a little bit fuzzy.
The road doesn't run at exactly the same
angle as the border, not precisely.
The official line is that
this is Canada and that's the USA,
but both countries' maps show the road
as being entirely in the US just here
and entirely in Canada, up there.
The houses are definitely
in separate countries
but the road is not quite as clear.
And in practise, if I was driving I'd be okay.
Even on that side of the road,
I am considered to be still in Canada,
as long as I don't stop and
walk up to an American house.
It's fair to say that there's
a little bit of leniency here,
if you're just nudging the
border by a few centimetres.
Or if you're on that side,
a couple of inches.
But while I was setting up my camera here,
the police turned up, lights flashing,
to move along those bikers
you saw earlier
who were admiring the view
from the other side of the road.
It all seemed in good spirits,
but they had crossed the border.
- Well, the library is
part on the Canadian side
and part on the American side.
But you stay on the Canadian side
and you stay on the sidewalk,
and you go through the front door
and it's permitted.
On Canusa Street, there's
a sidewalk on the Canadian side,
so back years ago, it was tolerated
that people on the American side
could cross over and walk on the sidewalk,
so, basically it's dangerous to
walk on the side of the road
and now today, well,
it's not tolerated no more.
I think the rule hasn't changed much,
but they're more enforced.
When you cross, they ask you more questions
than they used to, you know, years ago.
Before when you went through the border,
you knew most of the customs officers
and they used to wave to you, y'know.
- In 1783, this section of
the Canada-US border was set
at the 45th parallel,
a line of latitude.
Slightly inaccurate measurements were accepted
by both countries, so it was locked in.
But as for this specific road?
There are local stories about
drunk surveyors and pranks,
but no one really knows.